- [Instructor] Before we explore Gitlab's features
we'll need to install the software.
This lesson will focus on how to perform
Gitlab installation on the Ubuntu operating system.
Gitlab works best when installed on a Linux distribution
which is why we are using Ubuntu.
We'll be performing the installation
via an Ubuntu terminal
using the Advanced Package Tool or APT-GET.
The first thing that we need to do
is update APT-GET by issuing the command
sudo apt-get update.
This will ensure we have the latest packages
within the manager.
Next, we'll need to install some other packages
used by Gitlab, specifically Curl, OpenSSH,
and CA Certs.
Once again, we will be using sudo
and then we issue the apt-get command
and then install -y curl openssh-server
and then finally ca-certificates.
Next, we're going to use curl to download
and run a script that will install Gitlab.
We'll use the dash s and then upper case S flags
when running the curl command
and then we need to specify a URL to the script.
So curl is going to reach out to
packages.gitlab.com and you can see the rest of the URL
there, but at the end you see script.deb.sh
and that's the script we're going to pull down
and then we run that script using bash
as an admin.
And that's going to perform the installation.
I'll make sure the URL is provided
within the course materials,
that way you don't have to worry
about typing this out correctly
from the video.
As you can see, a repository is now set-up.
We need to do some additional installation
in order to install the Gitlab Community edition.
Once again, we're going to be performing
this command as an administrator.
And then we need to specify some options here.
So, we set the external URL,
this is going to be the URL that you use
to access Gitlab.
In our case, we're going to be running this
from the local host on port 80.
So that's what I specify for that option.
Then we're going to use apt-get
and we're going to use the install command
and then we simply specify gitlab-ce
for Community edition.
It may take a little while for the install to complete.
But once it does, we can then open up a browser.
Just as we specified, Gitlab will be available
on local host at port 80.
Here's the initial login screen for Gitlab.
You'll notice that it asks you for a new password.
This password is for the root administrative user.
I'm going to go ahead and specify the password,
simply as password, just to keep things simple.
And then click the change password button
and at this point, we can go ahead and login as
the root user using the new password
that we've set up.
So there you have it.
Now with Gitlab installed
and our access established,
we can explore how its features
will allow your team to make better use of Git.